##### Preprocessing Steps before making model ##########
#https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2016/01/guide-data-exploration/

Variable Identification - First, identify Predictor (Input) and Target (output) variables. Next, identify the data type and category of the variables.

Univariate Analysis - Method to perform uni-variate analysis will depend on whether the variable type is categorical or continuous.
In case of continuous variables, we need to understand the central tendency(Mean, Median,Mode,Min,Max) and spread of the variable.
Univariate analysis is also used to highlight missing and outlier values.Measure of dispersion is Range,Quartile, IQR, Variance, SD, Skewness&Kurtosis
Visualization method is Histogram and Boxplot.

Categorical Variables:- For categorical variables, we’ll use frequency table to understand distribution of each category. 
We can also read as percentage of values under each category. It can be be measured using two metrics, Count and Count% against each category. 
Bar chart can be used as visualization.

Bi-variate Analysis - Bi-variate Analysis finds out the relationship between two variables. We can perform bi-variate analysis for any combination of categorical and continuous variables. 
The combination can be: Categorical & Categorical, Categorical & Continuous and Continuous & Continuous

Continuous & Continuous: While doing bi-variate analysis between two continuous variables, we should look at scatter plot. 
It is a nifty way to find out the relationship between two variables. The pattern of scatter plot indicates the relationship between variables. 
The relationship can be linear or non-linear.Scatter plot shows the relationship between two variable but does not indicates the strength of relationship amongst them
Correlation would be use in this case and it varies in between -1 to +1 and 0 where no correlation.Correlation = Covariance(X,Y) / SQRT( Var(X)* Var(Y))

Categorical & Categorical: To find the relationship between two categorical variables, we can use two way table and stacked bar chart
Chi test will be used in this case. Chi-square is based on the difference between the expected and observed frequencies in one or more categories in the two-way table.
It returns probability for the computed chi-square distribution with the degree of freedom.Probability of 1: It shows that both variables are independent.
Probability less than 0.05: It indicates that the relationship between the variables is significant at 95% confidence. X2 =(O-E)2/E 
The chi-square test statistic for a test of independence of two categorical variables is found by: where O is observed and E is Expected.

Categorical & Continuous: While exploring relation between categorical and continuous variables, we can draw box plots for each level of categorical variables. 
If levels are small in number, it will not show the statistical significance. To look at the statistical significance we can perform Z-test, T-test or ANOVA.


Missing values treatment - It is values left during making data or inserting records into table.
Deletion, fill na with mean, median, and mode, Predictive modeling can also be used in this case. 

Outlier treatment - Data point beyond your data distribution or out of scope data. way to handle is to deletion, Log transformation 

Feature Engineering - Variable transformation, Variable creation

Variable transformation - Normalization Method or Scalling method. Change the scale of features when it is on diff scale. It will not change the shape of variable.
When we want to convert non linear relationship to linear relationship then we use Scaling. It mainly used in Linear regression, KNN, Kmnean etc which uses linear
Distance to predict the output. Theorems which uses linear distnace assumes independent variable is independent to each other and normally distributed.
Scatter plot can be used to find the relationship between two continuous variables. These transformations also improve the prediction. 
Log transformation is one of the commonly used transformation technique used in these situations.
whenever we have a skewed distribution, we can use transformations which reduce skewness. For right skewed distribution, 
we take square / cube root or logarithm of variable and for left skewed, we take square / cube or exponential of variables.
Log transformation cannot applied on zero and negative values so we will use square and cube root to handle those cases.

Binning: It is used to categorize variables. It is performed on original values, percentile or frequency. 
Decision of categorization technique is based on business understanding. For example, we can categorize income in three categories, 
namely: High, Average and Low. We can also perform co-variate binning which depends on the value of more than one variables.

Variable creation - OHE, Lable encoder and Dummy variables	